hello again I'm blonde T September seems
to be turning out to be a month full of
product reviews and the last couple I
did not really my usual fear we kind of
gadget related and stuff and usually
review movies and games and gadgets all
those sort of stuff this time back to
gadgets I'm taking a look at a netbook
Samsung's in C 10 so let's not waste any
further time with me dicking about in
front of the camera and show you what
I'm talking about and talk about what
I'm gonna be talking about that made
very little sense here's the netbook
okay to give you the quick rundown on
the tech specs we're looking at a
machine that sports a 160 gigabyte hard
drive a built-in 3G wireless broadband
modem one gigabyte of RAM and intel atom
n270 1.6 6 gigahertz processor aid 10.2
inch wide screen and it weighs just 1.33
kilograms so let's get to what actually
matters what is this little bugger
actually like to use well let's start at
one of the most useful features the
built-in 3G modem the software it comes
with is surprisingly simple and elegant
even though most gadget challenged
grandmother can work this one out click
the big fat-ass button and bam you're
connected to up this history G data
network add up the speeds of 7.2
megabits a second that's it that's the
whole story it's that easy in my time
with the samsung NC 10 I had no problems
with connection speeds or drop out the
wireless hardware seems absolutely
rock-solid and I was getting
consistently high speeds enough to do
what it is we all love best and it is
burn time watching YouTube videos and I
could do it without having to do that
crap we have to pause and wait for the
video to load for a while and then play
I could just load and play BAM the
streaming buffer would stay nicely ahead
of the playhead and to my joy the little
beasty unlike some other netbooks I've
owned or played with has enough juice to
go fullscreen and keep the playback
smooth and nice little surprise there
the battery life on this thing blew me
away
absolutely I had the machine for a week
while I was in Sydney recently I used it
at least twice a day for web surfing
checking my emails my YouTube messages
and comments watching some vids doing
some research blah blah blah blah blah
and I had to plug the thing in exactly
one time the battery monitor was repor
just over seven hours or so at full
charge and I was expecting that to be
around a generous estimation as they
often are but I'll be damned if I didn't
get at least that much out of it I
reckon if you kept the screen at low
brightness and turned off the Wi-Fi card
and all that sort of stuff you could
even squeeze out another hour or so out
of it the keyboard was to put it simply
the best keyboard I have ever used on a
computer this size the key caps and
pitch are only slightly short of being
full-sized and they feel great to type
on frankly it was a surprise because
I've got big old man hands and I can get
rather clumsy on most netbook keyboards
but this one barely slowed me down what
I didn't like however was the touchpad
it's too small
it is absolutely flush with the case you
can't find the edge you can't feel it
which means I was often swiping my
finger right off the end of the thing
without even knowing it basically I had
to keep looking down at the thing to
make sure I was still on it you do
gradually adjust and get used to it kind
of but it's still a piece of crappy user
interface design as far as I'm concerned
you should be able to use this thing
without having it look where your
fingers are kind of the point of them
but you know keyboard makes up for it I
guess keyboard is fantastic I keep
saying that but it really is okay find
one of these type on it you see what I
mean on the body you've got your usual
complement of input/output interfaces on
the right side a VGA port for an
external monitor a USB port and your
headphone microphone and lying-in
connections on the left the power input
a standard Ethernet jack and two more
USB ports and of course there's the
requisite webcam built into the screen
bezel and it's actually pretty decent
camera more than good enough for Skype
video calls or a quick youtube blog and
in the front of machine you've got an SD
memory card reader handy for offloading
those photos and videos when you're
traveling around the whole fit and
finish of the Samsung like most Samsung
products I've owned actually is superb
it fills and handles like a very
well-built and solid piece of kit
although the gloss black finish is of
course a fingerprint and smudge
collector like you wouldn't believe if
you're a bit obsessive compulsive about
such things this might drive you
completely and utterly insane
to wrap it all up for you aside from the
moderate misery that is the touchpad
this really is easily the best netbook
I've ever had my greasy mitts on it's
nippy it does everything you're gonna
need a netbook to do for you
the Optus 3G wireless broadband worked
flawlessly
and it's well designed and built tough
enough so you're not going to be worried
about the inevitable knots and engels
that's gonna have in its life as a road
warrior machine to keep you connected as
you travel frankly I was a little sad
and disappointed when I had to actually
return the review sample unit that they
let me borrow I wanted to keep it for
you Aziz here's the deal on getting on
it is exclusive to Optus and much like
many phone contract deals you can get
the netbook for absolutely free $0 zip
Milton nothing when you sign up on
either a 2 gigabyte or 5 gigabyte a
month data plan all the details are on
the Optus website if you're curious well
that's about all the important stuff I
can tell you about the samsung NC 10
netbook exclusive tear up this
blah-blah-blah-blah-blah I've been
blunted I'll catch you next time when
we're looking at another piece of
Samsung wireless internet gear thingy
see this you know what this is this is
kind of exciting so join me next time
talk about this thing I have to give
that back as well that's kind of
disappointing sometimes I get to keep
the stuff I review sometimes I don't I
like it when I get to keep them get you
next time